#news #archaeology

Scientists in Italy have [uncoverded](#^uncover) a fast-food [eatery](#^eatery) in the ancient Roman town of Pompeii.
The [remains](#^remains) help ==in the understanding of== foods that ==were popular among== Pompeii’s citizens.
Pompeii Archaeological Park’s chief Massimo Osanna said Saturday that about 80 such fast-food eateries have been found at Pompeii.
But the latest [find](#^find) is the first time such a hot-food-drink eatery — ==known as== a [thermopolium](#^thermopolium) — was completely uncovered.
Plant and animal specialists are still examining remains from the site.
Some of the thermopolium's [counter](#^counter) area was partly ==dug up== in 2019 during work to repair Pompeii’s [ruins](#^ruin).
Since then, archaeologists have ==kept digging==.
They uncovered a large counter area with wide holes ==on its top==.
The counter held deep containers for hot food.
The front of the counter included ==works of art== showing ducks and chickens.
The images [brightened](#^brighten) the eatery and also likely ==served as== food advertisements.
Another painting shows a dog on a [leash](#^leash).
Valeria Amoretti is an anthropologist at Pompeii. She said early studies confirm “how the painted images represent, at least ==in part==, the foods and beverages effectively sold inside.”
She noted that small pieces of duck bones ==were found in== one of the food containers. Remains from goats, pigs, fish and snails also were found.
==At the bottom of== a wine container were remains of ground [fava beans](eudic://dict/fava%20beans).
==In ancient times==, the beans were added to wine for taste and to [lighten](#^lighten) its color, Amoretti said.
Massimo Osanna added, “We know what they were eating that day.” He was talking about the day of Pompeii’s ==destruction== in 79 A.D.
The food remains are examples of “what’s popular with the ==common folk==,” Osanna told Italy’s Rai state TV.
He added that wealthy Romans did not eat at such ==street-food== businesses.
One surprise find at the [dig](#^dig) was the complete skeleton of a dog.
The scientists ==involved in== the dig noted it was not a “large muscular dog like that painted on the counter.
Instead it was a very small adult dog, whose height at shoulder level was 20 to 25 centimeters, Amoretti said.
She added it is rare to find remains from ancient times of such small dogs.
The find may show that Romans ==at the time== were ==carrying out== “selective breeding” of dogs.
The scientists also found a bronze serving device, nine food containers, ==a couple of== drink containers and a container for oil at the site.
Successful restaurant owners know that a good location is important for business.
The operator of this ancient fast-food eatery ==seemed to== have found a good place for ==doing business==.
Osanna noted that right outside the eatery was a small square with a fountain. Another thermopolium was nearby.
Pompeii was destroyed by the volcanic [eruption](#^eruption) of Mount Vesuvius, which is near ==present-day== Naples.
Much of the ancient city still lies uncovered.
The site is one of Italy’s most popular areas for visitors.

### Vocabulary

- to find out about something that has been kept secret ^uncover
- a restaurant or other place to eat ^eatery
- the parts of something that are left after the rest has been destroyed or has disappeared ^remains
- something that someone finds, especially by digging or by searching under water ^find
- a place where (something) hot is sold, was a commercial establishment where it was possible to purchase ready-to-eat food. ^thermopolium
- the place where you pay or are served in a shop, bank, restaurant etc ^counter
- the part of a building that is left after the rest has been destroyed ^ruin
- to make something more colourful or attractive ^brighten
- a piece of rope, leather etc fastened to a dog’s collar in order to control it ^leash
- to become brighter or less dark, or to make something brighter etc ^lighten
- an organized process of digging in order to find ancient objects for study ^dig
- an occasion when a volcano suddenly throws out burning rocks, smoke, etc. ^eruption

### Subject Word List

- uncover
- ancient
- remains
- citizen
- archaeological
- find
- examine
- site
- dig up
- ruins
- archaeologist
- works of art
- destruction
- skeleton
- eruption
